You can visit firebase dot Google dot com to create new firebase projects and also to learn more about
Firebase.
Now Firebase is a service by Google and it consists of a lot of different products.
As you can see, if you click on products, a lot of features built in will see some of those features.
We'll see those most important features, so to say, in action here.
And if you click on pricing, you will see that you can start for free.
But depending on which features you're going to use, you might need a paid plan, which also initially
is free.
But where you can Okura costs if you then use certain services to a certain extent.
And you can see all the details here in the pricing page there you'll learn what's free and what costs
money.
And if there is any free tier, for example, for authentication, you see that some services cost money,
but you also have a certain free tier so you can use them for free.
And only if you exceed this you pay basically.
And that's true for all those services.
There are certain free tiers and from a certain point on, you are going to pay and you should definitely
check this pricing page before you build any real app there for it.
Now, what we're going to do in this module should be covered by the free tier.
But of course, if you are already using some other firebase projects altogether, they might be exceeding
those free tiers.
So therefore, you should definitely check your usage and make sure that you don't occur any unexpected
costs.
With that, let's go to the firebase console.
And for that you will need a Google account.
So make sure that you do create one or that you sign in with your existing one.
Now, once you logged in, you can add a new project, and first of all, you need to pick a name here
and I will name it Flutter Chat, but the name is totally up to you next click continue.
And here you can choose if you want to add Google Analytics to your project and I will leave it turned
on, though technically we won't be needed here.
So let's click continue.
Select an account if you're getting prompt for.
Or the Google analytics account, so I did that here and I will now create that project.
Now, this can take a few seconds or maybe even minutes, but it should be fairly quick.
And this will now set up a firebase project and then forward us to a Web console where we can manage
that project and where you will be able to manage and monitor those different services you might be
using.
So let's wait for that to finish up.
Here it is.
Let's continue and here we are in this Web console now, here you see your firebase project and on the
left you see the different services that are offered by Firebase.
Now, in this module, we're going to have a look at authentication, a database and storage.
And we'll also have a look at the cloud functions and at push notifications, which we don't see here,
but which also are included.
You see them here with cloud messaging.
Now, you can manage your plan down there and switch to a paid plan, which you might need to do if
you exceed certain limits and you're under the gear, I and you can also manage your project and use
configuration data we might need and a general manager project, though we will do that together as
the need arises.
Now, what we need to do right away here to get started is we want to add our flutter app to this FIREBASE
project so that we can tap into Firebase with help of our flutter app.
And for that we ever add an IOC or an Android app here, depending on which kind of app you're building.
Of course, you can also add both now and currently previewing this here on Android.
So I will click on Android here to start with that and connect my FIREBASE project here to this flutter
app.
Now we get this wizard here and I will show you in a second, by the way.
But let's start with that so we get this wizard.
And first of all, we need to enter our Android package name here.
Now, you see that this is the application ID you find in your built ratel file so we can go to the
Android folder and they're going through the app folder and there it is, built gradle file.
Here, it's this application I.D. which you should find in this file.
Now, you can also change does Project White, your flutter project and then choose any identifier of
your choice here, I will go for the default one.
You can assign a nickname if you want to, which you can see in the firebase console.
But I'll not do that here.
We don't need that signing certificate here.
And therefore, we can just click register app now.
Next, we should download this Google services that Jason file and then drag it into your Android app
folder.
So next to that built dot gradle file we just had a look at.
So let's download this.
And here I'm in the Android folder and in that app folder there, I will download that Google Services
thought Jason file.
Let's move on to the next step and now at the Firebase STK now for that, you should actually follow
the steps that are shown here.
Go to your project level built on gradle file, which is this one here, and make sure that you have
Google here in your repositories node.
So here in Bill's script repositories, you should have Google and we already have that here, but verified
that it is their.
Also, under all projects, repositories, dear, you should always make sure that you have Google,
you can have more than that, but make sure you have Google at least.
Now, also, make sure you add this line here and you can just click that copy button near this line
here, Kutta dependencies in your bill script note.
So here's to Bill script.
Here are the dependencies.
And make sure you add this class path here, which I just copied and saved to follow thereafter.
Next in the app, level builds gradle file.
So to build gradle file in your app folder there, you should make sure that all those entries are added.
So under built right here.
If you scroll down a bit, you should already see this plug in come Android application, so that should
already be there.
But you should also add this Google Services plug in.
You can add it right below their.
And, of course, make sure that you have this line added to your dependencies, so if you scroll down.
Here's the penances and they're at the end, we can add this service or this line, save that file and
you're done, you can skip that step here.
You're done already.
So now here it's going to check whether that works.
But it should work, and this kennels reports that it doesn't work because you might need to uninstall
and reinstall Europe, but we'll see if it works soon because we're soon going to add to Flutter Firebase
SDK, which is going to communicate with Firebase.
And there we will see whether it works or not.
Now, that was the Android setup.
Now, if you develop on a Linux or Windows machine, you can now jump ahead to the next lecture.
But if you're on a Mac OS system, you can, of course, also configure Firebase to work with.
So let's do that next.
So therefore, I'll skip this step.
I'm back here in the console and I will click at app here to also add the IOC app.
Now, here we need to IOC bundle ID and we can find this bundle identifier in the general tap of our
apps, Primary, Target and Xcode as we see.
So therefore, I opened the folder of my project here with Xcode, and if I click on Runner here under
General.
It's this bundle identifier which we now need.
And all change does actually lead to.
Flattr chattier.
We're actually.
I'll change it to the same identifier I had in the Android folder, so app built Gradle there.
I had.
This identifier, and I'll use this in Xcode to you, might already have the same if you don't maybe
make sure that you do have the same identifiers.
Now, this is the bundle identifier, which I now also add here on Firebase.
However, for us, of course, it doesn't like underscores, I keep forgetting that, so let's make
sure we remove all those underscores here so that we have this identifier and we have the same identifier
here on Firebase.
Now, Justice, before we can add a nickname if we want, you can add an abstract idea if we want to.
I don't want to do either of that here, so I'll just register this app.
And there's a next step we have to download the Google service info playlist file here.
So download this.
And I'll add it in his runner folder, in my RSS project, so next to App Delegate and so on, I'll
add this file and save it there and now you can click next.
But because we're going to use the Flutter Firebase SDK, you should not add this firebase SDK like
this, so you should not follow the instructions here.
You should also not follow the instructions here in at initialization code.
Instead, we're already done with adding our project here and therefore we can go back and now here
we have our IRS project and we have our Android project set up in our FIREBASE project.
So we connect that this firebase project to our iOS and Android app.
And now we're going to use the Firebase Flutter SDK and get started with that in the next lecture to
finish up this connection and to be able to communicate between our flutter app and this FIREBASE backend.